.TH tinyerp 1

.SH NAME
koo \- Qt/KDE Client for Open ERP 

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B koo.py [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Koo is a Qt/KDE based client for Open ERP, a complete ERP and CRM. Koo
aims for great flexibility allowing easy creation of plugins and views, high
integration with the KDE4 under Unix, Windows and Mac, as well as providing
a development platform for new applications using the Open ERP server.

A set of server side modules is also provided among the Koo distribution
which provide better attachments handling and full text search.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this help message and exit.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the program's version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-c \fIfile\fR, \-\-config=\fIfile\fR
Specify alternate config file. By default, tinyerp uses ~/.koorc

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode. This is equivalent to: \fB\-\-log\-level\fR=INFO

.TP
.B \-l \fIlevel\fR, \-\-log-level=\fIlevel\fR
Specify the log level. By default, tinyerp only logs ERROR messages.
\fIlevel\fR can be any of the following: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL

.TP
.B \-d \fIchannels\fR, \-\-log=\fIchannels\fR
Specify which channels to log. Available channels are: view, view.form,
common.options, common.message, rpc.exception, rpc.request, rpc.result

.SH FILES
~/.koorc

.SH AUTHORS

Koo is a community effort mainly developed by NaN (\fBhttp://www.nan-tic.com\fR)
at SourceForge (\fBhttp://sf.net/projects/ktiny\fR)

.SH SEE ALSO
tinyerp_server(1) tinyerp_client(1)
.br
\fIhttp://ktiny.sf.net\fR : Open ERP developer zone
.br
\fIhttp://www.openerp.com\fR : Open ERP developer zone

